Introdution :

This course is intended for developers, project managers and executive decision makers who already know the basics of what open source software is and how copyrights work and are ready to take the next step towards building a formal compliance program for their organization.

Learning era :

This course provides a reference example of how an open source compliance program should be structured. 
It is designed to be used in the context of OpenChain ISO/IEC 5230:2020 but can be used for any open source compliance program. 
The course provides knowledge from the basics of intellectual property through to key concepts of an open source review. 
It is based on real-world experience and focuses on outcomes that are directly applicable to product and service deployment. 
The outcome of this course will be a clear understanding of how to use compliance as business optimization, reducing resource use and increasing efficiency.


Prerequisites :

While there are no well-defined prerequisites, it would be helpful if learners are familiar with:
What software is
What open source software is
How copyright works.

The course helped me to understand the business better and how to address it generally. 
It covered all the types of open source licenses and when to use one or another, in addition to the main Linux command scripts and a good understanding of Bash. 
I learned a lot of good practices around working with other developers and with distributed repositories, which helped me to gain an understanding of how to collaborate with the open source community. 
This includes working with Git – which I do day to day now – which was necessary and important. 
The most useful thing was definitely learning about Linux development tools, where I learned a lot about using command lines to manipulate files and processes using regular expressions to make tasks easier. 
Also, how to use various methods for debugging, compiling and building packages was very useful. 
Finally, understanding all the most important aspects of open source and how to collaborate with other teams is knowledge I am benefitting from. 









